system/algo_trader/schwab/README.md, before:

# Schwab API Integration

This module provides a comprehensive integration with the Schwab API for algorithmic trading applications. It handles OAuth2 authentication, token management, and provides access to market data and account operations.

## Overview

The Schwab integration consists of three main components:

- **SchwabClient**: Core OAuth2 authentication and token management
- **MarketHandler**: Market data operations (quotes, price history, market hours)
- **AccountHandler**: Account operations (positions, orders, account details)

## Token Management

The integration uses a Redis-first approach for token management with environment file fallback:

### Token Lifecycle

1. **Check Redis**: Look for valid access token (TTL: 30 minutes)
2. **Refresh from Redis**: If expired, use refresh token from Redis (TTL: 90 days)
3. **Load from Environment**: If Redis refresh fails, load refresh token from env file
4. **OAuth2 Flow**: If all else fails, initiate complete OAuth2 authentication

### Environment Variables

Required environment variables in `algo_trader.env`:

```bash
# Required for initialization
export SCHWAB_APP_NAME=your_app_name
export SCHWAB_API_KEY=your_api_key
export SCHWAB_SECRET=your_secret

# Optional - for token persistence
export SCHWAB_ACCESS_TOKEN=your_access_token
export SCHWAB_REFRESH_TOKEN=your_refresh_token
```

## OAuth2 Setup Process

### Initial Setup

1. **Register Application**: Create a Schwab API application at [Schwab Developer Portal](https://developer.schwab.com)

2. **Get Credentials**: Obtain your API key, secret, and app name

3. **Set Environment Variables**: Add credentials to `algo_trader.env`

4. **Run Authentication**: The first API call will trigger OAuth2 flow:
   ```python
   from system.algo_trader.schwab.market_handler import MarketHandler
   
   handler = MarketHandler()
   quotes = handler.get_quotes(['AAPL'])  # This will trigger OAuth2 if needed
   ```

### OAuth2 Flow Details

When OAuth2 is required, the system will:

1. Display authorization URL
2. Prompt for redirect URL after user authorization
3. Exchange authorization code for tokens
4. Store tokens in Redis and update environment file

## Usage Examples

### Market Data

```python
from system.algo_trader.schwab.market_handler import MarketHandler
from system.algo_trader.schwab.timescale_enum import PeriodType, FrequencyType

# Initialize handler
handler = MarketHandler()

# Get real-time quotes
quotes = handler.get_quotes(['AAPL', 'MSFT', 'GOOGL'])
print(f"AAPL Price: {quotes['AAPL']['price']}")

# Get historical data
history = handler.get_price_history(
    ticker='AAPL',
    period_type=PeriodType.DAY,
    period=5,
    frequency_type=FrequencyType.MINUTE,
    frequency=5
)

# Get market hours
from datetime import datetime
market_hours = handler.get_market_hours(datetime.now())
print(f"Market open: {market_hours.get('isOpen', False)}")
```

### Account Operations

```python
from system.algo_trader.schwab.account_handler import AccountHandler

# Initialize handler
account_handler = AccountHandler()

# Get all accounts
accounts = account_handler.get_accounts()

# Get account details
account_details = account_handler.get_account_details('123456789')

# Get positions
positions = account_handler.get_positions('123456789')

# Get orders
orders = account_handler.get_orders('123456789')

# Place order (example)
order_data = {
    "orderType": "MARKET",
    "session": "NORMAL",
    "duration": "DAY",
    "orderStrategyType": "SINGLE",
    "orderLegCollection": [
        {
            "instruction": "BUY",
            "quantity": 10,
            "instrument": {
                "symbol": "AAPL",
                "assetType": "EQUITY"
            }
        }
    ]
}
order_result = account_handler.place_order('123456789', order_data)
```

## Error Handling

The integration includes comprehensive error handling:

- **Token Expiry**: Automatic refresh when possible
- **Network Errors**: Graceful degradation with logging
- **API Errors**: Detailed error messages with status codes
- **Invalid Parameters**: Validation with clear error messages

## Testing

Run the test suite:

```bash
# Run all Schwab tests
bazel test //system/algo_trader/schwab:test_schwab_client
bazel test //system/algo_trader/schwab:test_market_handler
bazel test //system/algo_trader/schwab:test_account_handler
bazel test //system/algo_trader/schwab:test_timescale_enum

# Run with coverage
bazel test //system/algo_trader/schwab:test_schwab_client --test_output=all
```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Missing Environment Variables**
   ```
   ValueError: Missing required Schwab environment variables
   ```
   **Solution**: Ensure all required env vars are set in `algo_trader.env`

2. **Token Refresh Failures**
   ```
   Token refresh failed: 400 - Bad Request
   ```
   **Solution**: Check if refresh token is valid, may need to re-authenticate

3. **OAuth2 Flow Issues**
   ```
   Invalid redirect URL provided
   ```
   **Solution**: Ensure you copy the complete redirect URL including query parameters

4. **API Rate Limits**
   ```
   Request failed with status 429
   ```
   **Solution**: Implement rate limiting in your application

### Debug Mode

Enable debug logging to see detailed token flow:

```python
import logging
logging.getLogger('system.algo_trader.schwab').setLevel(logging.DEBUG)
```

## Architecture

### Token Storage Strategy

```
┌─────────────────┐    ┌─────────────────┐    ┌─────────────────┐
│   Application   │    │      Redis      │    │  Environment    │
│                 │    │                 │    │     File        │
├─────────────────┤    ├─────────────────┤    ├─────────────────┤
│ Access Token    │◄───┤ Access Token    │◄───┤ Access Token    │
│ (30 min TTL)    │    │ (30 min TTL)    │    │ (persistent)    │
├─────────────────┤    ├─────────────────┤    ├─────────────────┤
│ Refresh Token   │◄───┤ Refresh Token   │◄───┤ Refresh Token   │
│ (90 day TTL)    │    │ (90 day TTL)    │    │ (persistent)    │
└─────────────────┘    └─────────────────┘    └─────────────────┘
```

### Class Hierarchy

```
SchwabClient (Base)
├── MarketHandler (Market Data)
└── AccountHandler (Account Operations)
```

## Security Considerations

- **Token Storage**: Tokens are stored in Redis with appropriate TTL
- **Environment Files**: Never commit token files to version control
- **Network Security**: All API calls use HTTPS
- **Logging**: Sensitive data is not logged in production

## Rate Limits

Schwab API has rate limits that vary by endpoint:

- **Quotes**: 120 requests per minute
- **Price History**: 60 requests per minute
- **Account Data**: 30 requests per minute

The integration handles rate limiting gracefully by logging warnings and returning appropriate error responses.

## Support

For issues with this integration:

1. Check the troubleshooting section above
2. Review the test cases for usage examples
3. Enable debug logging for detailed flow information
4. Check Schwab API documentation for endpoint-specific issues

Commit message:

fix: prevent OAuth token writes to Bazel runfiles (#27)
* fix: prevent OAuth token writes to Bazel runfiles

Remove environment file writing from OAuth2 flow to prevent writes
to read-only Bazel runfiles directory. Tokens now displayed to user
for manual persistence via environment variables.

- Removed _update_env_file_with_tokens() method
- Added _display_refresh_token_instructions() with user confirmation
- Updated tests to verify console output instead of file writes
- Updated README with new token persistence workflow
- Fixed test_market_handler hanging by adding comprehensive mocks
- Added development-workflow.mdc and other project standards rules

* chore: remove obsolete valleys_plot.png file

system/algo_trader/schwab/README.md, after:

# Schwab API Integration

This module provides a comprehensive integration with the Schwab API for algorithmic trading applications. It handles OAuth2 authentication, token management, and provides access to market data and account operations.

## Overview

The Schwab integration consists of three main components:

- **SchwabClient**: Core OAuth2 authentication and token management
- **MarketHandler**: Market data operations (quotes, price history, market hours)
- **AccountHandler**: Account operations (positions, orders, account details)

## Token Management

The integration uses a Redis-first approach for token management with environment variable fallback:

### Token Lifecycle

1. **Check Redis**: Look for valid access token (TTL: 30 minutes)
2. **Refresh from Redis**: If expired, use refresh token from Redis (TTL: 90 days)
3. **Load from Environment**: If Redis refresh fails, load refresh token from environment variable
4. **OAuth2 Flow**: If all else fails, initiate complete OAuth2 authentication

**Important**: Redis is ephemeral - tokens stored in Redis will be lost on restart. The refresh token MUST be persisted as an environment variable for future sessions.

### Environment Variables

Required environment variables (must be set externally, not in files included in builds):

```bash
# Required for initialization
export SCHWAB_APP_NAME=your_app_name
export SCHWAB_API_KEY=your_api_key
export SCHWAB_SECRET=your_secret

# Required for token persistence across Redis restarts (valid for 90 days)
export SCHWAB_REFRESH_TOKEN=your_refresh_token
```

**Note**: Environment variables should be set via:
- Shell environment (`.bashrc`, `.zshrc`, etc.)
- Docker environment variables
- Container orchestration secrets (Kubernetes, Docker Compose, etc.)
- Never commit `.env` files to version control or include them in builds

## OAuth2 Setup Process

### Initial Setup

1. **Register Application**: Create a Schwab API application at [Schwab Developer Portal](https://developer.schwab.com)

2. **Get Credentials**: Obtain your API key, secret, and app name

3. **Set Environment Variables**: Add credentials to `algo_trader.env`

4. **Run Authentication**: The first API call will trigger OAuth2 flow:
   ```python
   from system.algo_trader.schwab.market_handler import MarketHandler
   
   handler = MarketHandler()
   quotes = handler.get_quotes(['AAPL'])  # This will trigger OAuth2 if needed
   ```

### OAuth2 Flow Details

When OAuth2 is required, the system will:

1. Display authorization URL
2. Prompt for redirect URL after user authorization
3. Exchange authorization code for tokens
4. Store tokens in Redis (ephemeral, for current session)
5. Display refresh token and instructions for manual persistence
6. Wait for user confirmation after copying token

**Critical**: After OAuth2 completes, you MUST:
- Copy the displayed refresh token
- Set it as an environment variable: `export SCHWAB_REFRESH_TOKEN=<token>`
- Add it to your persistent environment configuration
- The token is valid for 90 days and must be set before the next run

## Usage Examples

### Market Data

```python
from system.algo_trader.schwab.market_handler import MarketHandler
from system.algo_trader.schwab.timescale_enum import PeriodType, FrequencyType

# Initialize handler
handler = MarketHandler()

# Get real-time quotes
quotes = handler.get_quotes(['AAPL', 'MSFT', 'GOOGL'])
print(f"AAPL Price: {quotes['AAPL']['price']}")

# Get historical data
history = handler.get_price_history(
    ticker='AAPL',
    period_type=PeriodType.DAY,
    period=5,
    frequency_type=FrequencyType.MINUTE,
    frequency=5
)

# Get market hours
from datetime import datetime
market_hours = handler.get_market_hours(datetime.now())
print(f"Market open: {market_hours.get('isOpen', False)}")
```

### Account Operations

```python
from system.algo_trader.schwab.account_handler import AccountHandler

# Initialize handler
account_handler = AccountHandler()

# Get all accounts
accounts = account_handler.get_accounts()

# Get account details
account_details = account_handler.get_account_details('123456789')

# Get positions
positions = account_handler.get_positions('123456789')

# Get orders
orders = account_handler.get_orders('123456789')

# Place order (example)
order_data = {
    "orderType": "MARKET",
    "session": "NORMAL",
    "duration": "DAY",
    "orderStrategyType": "SINGLE",
    "orderLegCollection": [
        {
            "instruction": "BUY",
            "quantity": 10,
            "instrument": {
                "symbol": "AAPL",
                "assetType": "EQUITY"
            }
        }
    ]
}
order_result = account_handler.place_order('123456789', order_data)
```

## Error Handling

The integration includes comprehensive error handling:

- **Token Expiry**: Automatic refresh when possible
- **Network Errors**: Graceful degradation with logging
- **API Errors**: Detailed error messages with status codes
- **Invalid Parameters**: Validation with clear error messages

## Testing

Run the test suite:

```bash
# Run all Schwab tests
bazel test //system/algo_trader/schwab:test_schwab_client
bazel test //system/algo_trader/schwab:test_market_handler
bazel test //system/algo_trader/schwab:test_account_handler
bazel test //system/algo_trader/schwab:test_timescale_enum

# Run with coverage
bazel test //system/algo_trader/schwab:test_schwab_client --test_output=all
```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Missing Environment Variables**
   ```
   ValueError: Missing required Schwab environment variables
   ```
   **Solution**: Ensure all required env vars are set in `algo_trader.env`

2. **Token Refresh Failures**
   ```
   Token refresh failed: 400 - Bad Request
   ```
   **Solution**: Check if refresh token is valid, may need to re-authenticate

3. **OAuth2 Flow Issues**
   ```
   Invalid redirect URL provided
   ```
   **Solution**: Ensure you copy the complete redirect URL including query parameters

4. **API Rate Limits**
   ```
   Request failed with status 429
   ```
   **Solution**: Implement rate limiting in your application

### Debug Mode

Enable debug logging to see detailed token flow:

```python
import logging
logging.getLogger('system.algo_trader.schwab').setLevel(logging.DEBUG)
```

## Architecture

### Token Storage Strategy

```
┌─────────────────┐    ┌─────────────────┐    ┌─────────────────┐
│   Application   │    │      Redis      │    │  Environment    │
│                 │    │                 │    │     File        │
├─────────────────┤    ├─────────────────┤    ├─────────────────┤
│ Access Token    │◄───┤ Access Token    │◄───┤ Access Token    │
│ (30 min TTL)    │    │ (30 min TTL)    │    │ (persistent)    │
├─────────────────┤    ├─────────────────┤    ├─────────────────┤
│ Refresh Token   │◄───┤ Refresh Token   │◄───┤ Refresh Token   │
│ (90 day TTL)    │    │ (90 day TTL)    │    │ (persistent)    │
└─────────────────┘    └─────────────────┘    └─────────────────┘
```

### Class Hierarchy

```
SchwabClient (Base)
├── MarketHandler (Market Data)
└── AccountHandler (Account Operations)
```

## Security Considerations

- **Token Storage**: Tokens are stored in Redis with appropriate TTL
- **Environment Files**: Never commit token files to version control
- **Network Security**: All API calls use HTTPS
- **Logging**: Sensitive data is not logged in production

## Rate Limits

Schwab API has rate limits that vary by endpoint:

- **Quotes**: 120 requests per minute
- **Price History**: 60 requests per minute
- **Account Data**: 30 requests per minute

The integration handles rate limiting gracefully by logging warnings and returning appropriate error responses.

## Support

For issues with this integration:

1. Check the troubleshooting section above
2. Review the test cases for usage examples
3. Enable debug logging for detailed flow information
4. Check Schwab API documentation for endpoint-specific issues
